# Phylogeny of Section _Amanita_ 

This project is aimed at generating a species for sect. Amanita (subgen Amanita, genus Amanita). Although this is a phylogenetics project, it's ultimate goal is to interrogate the taxonomy of this section, to see how applied section names compare with apparent phylogenetic signal.

## Data  
* publically available GenBank accessions from 17 species in subsection _Amanita_, 2 species in subsect. *Pantherinae*, two species in sect. *Amanita* without subsectional placement, and A. caesarea. See `./RawData/GB_acc_no` for the accession numbers and taxa initially sampled. For each taxon, I have tried to get data across all four loci (ITS1, LSU, $\beta$-Tubulin, and EF1-$\alpha$) with as many accessions as possible. Certain accessions were low quality or spurious. These were removed (see `note-book-log.md` in this directory). `./sp_acc_nos_final` contains text files showing the GB accessions used in the final analysis. These are labeled according to their identity with the following format `[GB NUMBER]_Amanita_[SPEFIC EPITHET]`. Do get them into a format suitable for downloading, you may run the following: 
```{sh}
LOCI=("ITS" "BTUB" "LSU" "EF1")

for locus in ${LOCI[@]}; do 
    awk 'BEGIN {FS="_"} {print $1}' ./sp_acc_nos_final/sp_accessions_${locus}.txt > ./sp_acc_nos_final/GB_nos_nonames_${locus}.txt
done
```
* GenBank Accessions were currated manually and downloaded into four `.fasta.` files. These do not have quality scores and were likely generated by sanger sequencing, making automated QC impossible. Furthermore, `.fasta` files do not contain quality information. 
* Though it was originally my intent to include sequences extracted from private genomes belonging to infraspecific taxa identified as _Amanita muscaria_, I decided against this. It did not add much to the phylogeny. Nevertheless, I've decided to leave the scripts I made to extract the four loci from the genomes for future reference. 

See `notebook-log.md` for the scripts used to perform this analysis. 

